<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Epigraph</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter">
		<section id="epigraph" epub:type="epigraph z3998:poem">
			<h2>THE DWELLER ALONE</h2>
			<div class="poem">
				<div class="stanza">
					<span>My Self has grown too mad for me to master.<br/></span>
					<span>Craven, beyond what comfort I can find,<br/></span>
					<span>It cries: "<i>Oh, God, I am stricken with disaster</i>."<br/></span>
					<span>Cries in the night: "<i>I am stricken, I am blind</i>...."<br/></span>
					<span>I will divorce it. I will make my dwelling<br/></span>
					<span>Far from my Self. Not through these hind'ring tears<br/></span>
					<span>Will I see men's tears shed. Not with these ears<br/></span>
					<span>Will I hear news that tortures in the telling.<br/></span>
				</div>
				<div class="stanza">
					<span>I will go seeking for my soul's remotest<br/></span>
					<span>And stillest place. For oh, I starve and thirst<br/></span>
					<span>To hear in quietness man's passionate protest<br/></span>
					<span>Against the doom with which his world is cursed.<br/></span>
					<span>Not my own wand'rings—not my own abidings—<br/></span>
					<span>Shall give my search a bias and a bent.<br/></span>
					<span>For me is no light moment of content,<br/></span>
					<span>For me no friend, no teller of the tidings.<br/></span>
				</div>
				<div class="stanza">
					<span>The waves of endless time do sing and thunder<br/></span>
					<span>Upon the cliffs of space. And on that sea<br/></span>
					<span>I will sail forth, nor fear to sink thereunder,<br/></span>
					<span>Immeasurable time supporting me:<br/></span>
					<span>That sea—that mother of a million summers,<br/></span>
					<span>Who bore, with melody, a million springs,<br/></span>
					<span>Shall sing for my enchantment, as she sings<br/></span>
					<span>To life's forsaken ones, and death's newcomers.<br/></span>
				</div>
				<div class="stanza">
					<span>Look, yonder stand the stars to banish anger,<br/></span>
					<span>And there the immortal years do laugh at pain,<br/></span>
					<span>And here is promise of a blessed languor<br/></span>
					<span>To smooth at last the seas of time again.<br/></span>
					<span>And all those mothers' sons who did recover<br/></span>
					<span>From death, do cry aloud: "<i>Ah, cease to mourn us.</i><br/></span>
					<span>
						<i>To life and love you claimed that you had borne us,</i>
						<br/>
					</span>
					<span><i>But we have found death kinder than a lover</i>."<br/></span>
				</div>
				<div class="stanza">
					<span>I will divorce my Self. Alone it searches<br/></span>
					<span>Amid dark ruins for its yesterday;<br/></span>
					<span>Beats with its hands upon the doors of churches,<br/></span>
					<span>And, at their altars, finds it cannot pray.<br/></span>
					<span>But I am free—I am free of indecision,<br/></span>
					<span>Of blood, and weariness, and all things cruel.<br/></span>
					<span>I have sold my Self for silence, for the jewel<br/></span>
					<span>Of silence, and the shadow of a vision....<br/></span>
				</div>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
